[Music.]
[Tom Turbiville]: Hello and welcome to Veterans of the Valley.
[Tom Turbiville]: I'm Tom Turbiville.
[Tom Turbiville]: Some call it the Forgotten War, but Norman Beal of rural Brazos County has not forgotten a thing about his 2nd Battalion, 5th Marines, assault on the Korean coast in 1950.
[Tom Turbiville]: Nor has he forgotten the horror and the cold of that winter, scaling the cliffs at the beaches at Incheon.
[Tom Turbiville]: The card game that he lost that kept him in Korea to fight even longer.
[Tom Turbiville]: The Korean War cost 54,000 American lives and another 8,000 were missing.
[Tom Turbiville]: Norman Beal counts himself very lucky to have survived to tell his story of service.
[Tom Turbiville]: Please welcome Norman Beal of Edge to Veterans of the Valley.
[Tom Turbiville]: Mr. Beal, it's an honor to have you on Veterans of the Valley and thank you first for your service.
[Tom Turbiville]: You were a local kid all the way.
[Tom Turbiville]: You grew up in Bryan.
[Tom Turbiville]: You graduated from Allen Academy in 1948.
[Tom Turbiville]: and want to move right along because you joined the Marine Corps soon after you graduated from high school in 1948.
[Tom Turbiville]: Sort of take us from there and your service in the Marine Corps and sort of how that got you overseas to Korea.
[Norman Beal]: Well, I was overseas in other places also for a couple of years and came back to the States and a few months later we had to turn around and go back.
[Norman Beal]: But we didn't, and the Marine Corps at that time in 1948 only had about 75,000 Marines.
[Norman Beal]: So they had to scrape all over the world to get more Marines to develop a brigade.
[Norman Beal]: General MacArthur was calling for Marines
[Norman Beal]: early and all we could gather up was one brigade and each battalion was missing one company.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right.
[Norman Beal]: And the companies that we did have only had two platoons.
[Norman Beal]: So that was...
[Tom Turbiville]: Right. This was a time that the military had really changed because it was after World War II and the military was kind of scaling down at that time.
[Norman Beal]: Very much so.
[Tom Turbiville]: You talked about how the military had changed during this time between World War II and before the Korean War broke out.
[Norman Beal]: Yeah, after World War II, all future wars were going to be push-button.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right.
[Norman Beal]: And so the Air Force decided they didn't need too many Army personnel, didn't even need the Marines, but the Navy, they wanted to keep the Navy.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right, right, right.
[Tom Turbiville]: You had spent a long time...
[Tom Turbiville]: on a boat.
[Tom Turbiville]: I know you'd gone out to the Marianas Islands in the West Pacific for your training and you came home, said you'd never get on a boat again, but that was wrong because Korean War broke out and you were headed to Korea.
[Norman Beal]: I didn't want to get in on any more stinking ships.
[Tom Turbiville]: You talk highly about the training that you got because you said that a lot of the NCOs and the officers were World War II veterans who were certainly
[Tom Turbiville]: a war experience themselves.
[Tom Turbiville]: So you did get some good training from these folks.
[Norman Beal]: Yes, and just the Marine Corps trains all the time.
[Norman Beal]: I finally got back to the States and I got out of the Fleet Marine Force and was put in a company that didn't go in the field.
[Norman Beal]: So our new colonel decided we were getting soft
[Norman Beal]: And after I was there about three weeks, we were put in the field again.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right.
[Norman Beal]: And I learned how to dig foxholes again.
[Tom Turbiville]: And you would need that later on, obviously.
[Tom Turbiville]: 2nd Battalion, 5th Marines.
[Tom Turbiville]: This is one of the oldest outfits dating back to World War I. As a matter of fact, I looked up, it was the German soldiers that actually gave them the nickname the Devil Dogs because they were so tough fighting in World War I in 1918.
[Norman Beal]: Bellow Wood.
[Tom Turbiville]: Bellow Wood. That's right.
[Tom Turbiville]: That's right.
[Tom Turbiville]: So this was a part of the outfit that you were in.
[Tom Turbiville]: You left San Diego August of 1950 and thought you were going to
[Tom Turbiville]: stop over in Japan, but you went straight to the coast of Korea to Busan.
[Tom Turbiville]: Talk about that.
[Norman Beal]: There was not much of South Korea left.
[Norman Beal]: That's why we didn't stop.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right.
[Norman Beal]: And when we got to Busan, Korea,
[Norman Beal]: Our general was down on the dock, and he wanted to know if Colonel Murray had gotten his message.
[Norman Beal]: And Murray called down and said, no, sir.
[Norman Beal]: And he said, well, you get off the ship now, and let's move on to the front.
[Norman Beal]: And that was his message that we didn't get.
[Norman Beal]: But fortunately, we spent that whole night unloading the ship.
[Norman Beal]: And early the next morning, we moved forward.
[Tom Turbiville]: So you didn't stick around long.
[Tom Turbiville]: You were headed to the front.
[Norman Beal]: Right.
[Tom Turbiville]: Talk about that.
[Tom Turbiville]: Talk about your first venture into combat, heading towards North Korea.
[Tom Turbiville]: What you recall about that?
[Tom Turbiville]: Because you're still a young kid.
[Tom Turbiville]: I mean, you're a young kid from the country.
[Tom Turbiville]: And it was quite a...
[Tom Turbiville]: Quite a change in your life, obviously.
[Norman Beal]: We were down in South Korea, and like I say, we were pushed into combat right away on August the 7th.
[Norman Beal]: We attacked, and that was the same date that the offensive action in World War II, August the 7th at Guadalcanal, the 1st Marine Division, which the 5th Marines was part of.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right.
[Norman Beal]: And we, after a few days, we had pushed the North Koreans back 30 miles, 30-plus miles.
[Norman Beal]: And the very next day or two, we were called back.
[Norman Beal]: Down south, they could not protect our sides.
[Norman Beal]: And we then were put in what we call the fire brigade.
[Norman Beal]: We'd move from one spot to another, trying to hold the North Koreans back.
[Norman Beal]: And we had two major battles on the Nakdong River.
[Norman Beal]: The first Nakdong, we pushed them back over the river, and we all went down and rested two days or three days.
[Norman Beal]: And we were called back up because we had lost, or the military had lost, the Nakdong front again.
[Norman Beal]: It was called the Nakdong Bulge, the 6th North Korean People's Army.
[Norman Beal]: Very sophisticated.
[Norman Beal]: They had come from...
[Norman Beal]: Seoul, the capital, all the way down to this little area down in Busan we call it the Busan Perimeter and they had not hit anything but they found a new breed of cat
[Norman Beal]: down there right and so you go ahead then we were pulled off the night tone and all of a sudden we went down to Seoul Busan right and we got on board ship and we started we thought maybe we'd get to go back to Japan for our duty
[Tom Turbiville]: Because you'd done such a good job.
[Norman Beal]: Because we'd done such a good job.
[Tom Turbiville]: Yeah, but?
[Norman Beal]: I looked out one morning and there were ships in every direction.
[Norman Beal]: And then they come on the intercom and they told us that we had been selected.
[Norman Beal]: to hit the North Koreans right in the throat.
[Norman Beal]: We were going to make an Incheon landing at Seoul.
[Norman Beal]: Seoul was about 30-something miles from Incheon.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right.
[Norman Beal]: But when we got to Incheon, all the Navy were bombarding Incheon, poor people.
[Norman Beal]: And our planes were coming over and strafing and bombing.
[Norman Beal]: Didn't see how anybody could live.
[Norman Beal]: But anyway, one of our battalions had to take a small island right out from Incheon.
[Norman Beal]: It had a causeway going into Incheon.
[NTom Turbiville]: Right, right.
[Tom Turbiville]: This was Wamido Island, is that right?
[Tom Turbiville]: Is that what you told me?
[Tom Turbiville]: I believe that's what you told me the other day.
[Tom Turbiville]: Amigo.
[Tom Turbiville]: Oh, Amigo, there we go.
[Tom Turbiville]: I was close.
[Tom Turbiville]: And it had a causeway, actually, from the island to the mainland.
[Norman Beal]: Yes, to the mainland.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right, right.
[Norman Beal]: And that 3rd Battalion had to set up on that causeway to keep from attacking on the causeway.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right, but the island was armed with North Koreans.
[Norman Beal]: Yes, oh yes.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right.
[Norman Beal]: And we pretty well wiped them, our third battalion pretty well wiped them all out.
[Tom Turbiville]: Now, while you were witnessing this, were you still on the boat or had you...
[Norman Beal]: I was still on the boat.
[Tom Turbiville]: You were still on the ship.
[Norman Beal]: Yes. We had two battalions still on.
[Norman Beal]: We had got our third battalion finally.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right.
[Norman Beal]: And we were on board.
[Norman Beal]: Now, the reason we were on board in Korea, they had one of the highest water...
[Norman Beal]: up 30, the tide, 30 feet, and then it would drop.
[Norman Beal]: And after it dropped, there was just a huge mudflat out there, and our ships were in the mud, still shooting.
[Norman Beal]: So we had ladders that the Navy had fixed for us, and we crawled up a seawall.
[Norman Beal]: And when we got off the seawall, my old gunnery sergeant was walking up and down.
[Norman Beal]: And as you know, a gunnery sergeant in the Marine Corps uses words that I wouldn't repeat right now.
[Tom Turbiville]: That's why he's a gunnery sergeant.
[Norman Beal]: That's right.
[Norman Beal]: Get off the beach.
[Norman Beal]: And we captured our inch on pretty quick.
[Norman Beal]: Excuse me.
[Norman Beal]: I got mixed up.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right.
[Norman Beal]: And as soon as we did, then we started for soul.
[Tom Turbiville]: Now, I want our viewers to be able to picture this.
[Tom Turbiville]: You're on foot.
[Norman Beal]: Yes.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right?
[Tom Turbiville]: What kind of weaponry did you personally have?
[Norman Beal]: I started out with a machine gun, and then later on I got the arc carbine and I got rid of it as soon as I could and got an M1 rifle.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right.
[Norman Beal]: And it was a very good rifle.
[Tom Turbiville]: Oh, yeah.
[Tom Turbiville]: I know.
[Tom Turbiville]: So you're marching and you're battling?
[Norman Beal]: Well, we're battling.
[Tom Turbiville]: because this is what the war was all about.
[Norman Beal]: We captured Kimpo Airfield, which wasn't any tarmac there other than a few knockdown yaks.
[Norman Beal]: And we made another landing after we captured the air base.
[Norman Beal]: And we crossed the Han River in LCVP's landing craft.
[Norman Beal]: We made it across and then we headed to Seoul.
[Norman Beal]: My battalion did not go down, our regiment did not go down into the city of Seoul.
[Norman Beal]: That was the first regiment with Chesty Puller and his group.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right.
[Tom Turbiville]: Talk about Mr. Puller.
[Tom Turbiville]: He was the most decorated soldier of the Korean War, right?
[Norman Beal]: He was the most decorated Marine.
[Tom Turbiville]: Marine, excuse me, yes.
[Norman Beal]: Of the Korean War, of all wars that he was in.
[Norman Beal]: He was fought in the Banana Wars and all the way up.
[Norman Beal]: That was a good outfit.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right, right.
[Norman Beal]: He was one who said, we've got the enemy in front of us.
[Norman Beal]: We've got him in back of us.
[Norman Beal]: And we've got him on each side.
[Norman Beal]: We've got him right where we want him.
[Norman Beal]: He can't get away now.
[Norman Beal]: And he was about right.
[Tom Turbiville]: I know that you're reluctant to talk specifically about, as you refer to it, the blood and guts of war.
[Tom Turbiville]: And I understand that.
[Tom Turbiville]: But what were your thoughts about what you were seeing?
[Tom Turbiville]: Were you frightened?
[Tom Turbiville]: Did your training kick in?
[Tom Turbiville]: when it needed to?
[Tom Turbiville]: What were your thoughts about life and death at that time that you recall?
[Norman Beal]: Well, you know, if you're in combat, you're afraid until you go into the attack.
[Norman Beal]: or until the enemy goes into an attack.
[Norman Beal]: So then you get fairly calm.
[Norman Beal]: We had some horrible battles down in the perimeter, Busan perimeter.
[Norman Beal]: But when we got on board ship, we went up to Inchon, captured the capital of Seoul.
[Norman Beal]: went back down got on board ship surely it's our and our duty but we went all the way around the peninsula of korea to the east side of korea north korea right to a place called wansan it was more of an administrative uh movement into the city of wansan right
[Norman Beal]: And then a day or two later, we got on board a train, flat cars.
[Norman Beal]: It's starting to get cold.
[Norman Beal]: Yes, sir.
[Norman Beal]: And we headed north.
[Norman Beal]: And one of the things that really had us worried was we went through a long, long tunnel.
[Norman Beal]: And fortunately, the North Koreans were not thinking about that tunnel.
[Norman Beal]: Went on up to Hagaru, North Korea, and then we headed north.
[Norman Beal]: headed for the Chosin Reservoir area.
[Norman Beal]: And just before we got to the mountains, we had mountains on top of mountains.
[Norman Beal]: We got on board a small, very small cow track
[Norman Beal]: going up into North Korea, or up into the reservoir area.
[Norman Beal]: When we got up there, I think I have heard, I don't know of anybody that had a thermometer, but I heard that when we got to the top, it was over 13 degrees below zero.
[Norman Beal]: And that was a physiological shock.
[Norman Beal]: And thank goodness no one attacked that night.
[Norman Beal]: Stayed there a few days and then the 7th Regiment and the 5th Regiment moved up to Hageroo, North Korea, which was right at the bottom of the big reservoir.
[Norman Beal]: Our regiment went up the right side, or the east side, and a day or two, we had Thanksgiving.
[Norman Beal]: And it kind of warmed up, incidentally, but we were only there just
[Norman Beal]: Three or four days.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right.
[Norman Beal]: And we started down because two regiments, our partial regiments of the 7th Army Division, came up to the right side and took our place.
[Norman Beal]: And they were pretty well slaughtered later.
[Norman Beal]: I think 800 got out.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right.
[Tom Turbiville]: Let's pause right there and let's look at some photographs.
[Tom Turbiville]: of some of the things we're talking about because you have mentioned how cold it became.
[Tom Turbiville]: And we've got some photographs that depict
[Norman Beal]: 30 and 40 blue.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right. Let's look at some pictures.
[Tom Turbiville]: First off, this is you and your older brothers.
[Tom Turbiville]: You're the baby of the family.
[Tom Turbiville]: You're on the left.
[Norman Beal]: That's correct.
[Tom Turbiville]: And these are your brothers.
[Norman Beal]: Right.
[Tom Turbiville]: Who are they from, say, from right to left as we're looking at it?
[Norman Beal]: Right to left, Ralph Beal.
[Tom Turbiville]: Yes, sir.
[Norman Beal]: My brother Ralph.
[Norman Beal]: He was next to me.
[Tom Turbiville]: Oh, next to you.
[Tom Turbiville]: Okay.
[Norman Beal]: And the oldest one was Jacob Beal in the middle there.
[Norman Beal]: And Oren Beal.
[Tom Turbiville]: So Oren is on the right as we're looking at the picture here.
[Norman Beal]: Oh, I'm sorry.
[Tom Turbiville]: That's okay.
[Norman Beal]: I started over here.
[Tom Turbiville]: That's fine.
[Tom Turbiville]: I understand.
[Tom Turbiville]: Okay.
[Tom Turbiville]: I think the next picture we have is you as a young Marine.
[Tom Turbiville]: There you are.
[Norman Beal]: Yeah.
[Tom Turbiville]: Was that when you just joined up?
[Norman Beal]: When I just got out of boot camp.
[Tom Turbiville]: Just got out of boot camp.
[Norman Beal]: You got in the dress blues.
[Norman Beal]: Good looking.
[Tom Turbiville]: I found this photograph depicting the landing at Incheon and the type of ladders.
[Tom Turbiville]: This probably looks somewhat familiar to you.
[Norman Beal]: Very, very much so.
[Norman Beal]: The guy right up at the top was a lieutenant and he was killed
[Norman Beal]: five or six yards later because when he was getting his men off the boat and somebody threw a grenade and this guy, he did not fight down in the south.
[Norman Beal]: This was his first combat.
[Norman Beal]: And he covered that grenade, saving the men on each side.
[Norman Beal]: He got the Medal of Honor.
[Norman Beal]: I wish I could remember his name, but I can't.
[Tom Turbiville]: Okay, let's move on.
[Tom Turbiville]: This is a photograph that certainly depicts the cold, the snow, the cold, just trying to get some sleep, trying to get some rest, right?
[Norman Beal]: Actually, we were on the road.
[Norman Beal]: We were surrounded.
[Norman Beal]: We were cut off up at a place called Yudam-ni, and Hagaru was cut off on both sides by the North Koreans, or by the Chinese, excuse me.
[Norman Beal]: There's 120,000 Chinese that came in with strict orders to do away with the Marines because they were killers, murderers, rapists, thieves.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right.
[Norman Beal]: So they tried.
[Norman Beal]: We were able to severely knock out seven infantry divisions of the Chinese.
[Norman Beal]: And they had a few more that got out.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right.
[Norman Beal]: Some more photographs.
[Tom Turbiville]: Talk about this photograph.
[Tom Turbiville]: You're in the middle.
[Norman Beal]: Yeah, I had that air crew 30 machine gun right at first.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right.
[Norman Beal]: And my two buddies there with me.
[Norman Beal]: The one on the right was Texan.
[Norman Beal]: Yes, sir.
[Norman Beal]: And he's dead today.
[Tom Turbiville]: And you're the one in the middle without the helmet.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right.
[Tom Turbiville]: This wasn't during the cold part, obviously.
[Tom Turbiville]: No.
[Norman Beal]: Very, very humid.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right.
[Norman Beal]: And yet up to around 113.
[Norman Beal]: And we didn't have enough water.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right.
[Tom Turbiville]: Okay.
[Norman Beal]: This is another one of David Douglas Duncan's photographs, and I believe these are not Marines here.
[Norman Beal]: There's some Marines in the ditch there.
[Tom Turbiville]: Yes, sir.
[Norman Beal]: But he didn't like that photograph, but yet it was used on a stamp.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right.
[Norman Beal]: That's that picture.
[Norman Beal]: Incredible photograph.
[Tom Turbiville]: There you are, as you were fixing to be able to come home.
[Norman Beal]: Right.
[Tom Turbiville]: You've grown yourself a little pretty good looking stash there.
[Norman Beal]: I don't know how I got away with it.
[Norman Beal]: The Marine Corps doesn't put up with that.
[Tom Turbiville]: But you told the story about that if you wanted to go R&R to Japan,
[Tom Turbiville]: You had to get that shaved off, and you were the first to get yours shaved off.
[Tom Turbiville]: Is that right?
[Norman Beal]: It came off immediately.
[Tom Turbiville]: Yeah, I bet it did.
[Norman Beal]: I was standing right next to one of my men on board ship, and I was making comments.
[Norman Beal]: He turned around and looked at me, and he said, Bill, is that you?
[Norman Beal]: Without the beard?
[Norman Beal]: Let's move on to the next.
[Tom Turbiville]: This is a...
[Norman Beal]: Those are prisoners.
[Tom Turbiville]: Yeah, this is a newspaper that comes out.
[Tom Turbiville]: This was spring of 84 called The Chosen Few.
[Tom Turbiville]: It's a sort of a publication that is about your unit.
[Norman Beal]: You know, excuse me, we hear about torture today.
[Tom Turbiville]: Yes, sir.
[Norman Beal]: We got the word that you do not mistreat any enemy soldier.
[Norman Beal]: We want them to come out with their hands up.
[Norman Beal]: Yes, sir.
[Norman Beal]: Not too many of them did, but some of them did.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right.
[Tom Turbiville]: Let's move on to...
[Tom Turbiville]: Now tell me, this is you on the right.
[Tom Turbiville]: Tell me about the person on the left.
[Tom Turbiville]: And this is a person that you actually took out of a foxhole, right?
[Norman Beal]: Right.
[Tom Turbiville]: Is this Mr. Dixon?
[Norman Beal]: Yes, sir.
[Norman Beal]: And he was my buddy after we met there.
[Norman Beal]: I didn't know who he was.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right.
[Norman Beal]: He had both legs blown off.
[Norman Beal]: And he came up to me and put his arm around me and hugged my neck.
[Tom Turbiville]: This was at a reunion, right?
[Norman Beal]: Right.
[Norman Beal]: Uh-huh.
[Norman Beal]: And I don't know where they even knew what outfit he was in because we had replacements coming in all the time.
[Tom Turbiville]: And you had drug him out of a foxhole and this is the first time that you all have seen each other since then in 1950.
[Norman Beal]: Right.
[Norman Beal]: Since 1950.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right.
[Norman Beal]: He was in that foxhole and there were others wounded and some killed in a martyr attack.
[Norman Beal]: That day, we had gone through a small, small village
[Norman Beal]: And I got the honor to be sent back to that village to kick in doors to make sure everybody was out.
[Norman Beal]: And I think about these guys over in Afghanistan and Iraq that have to kick in those doors and the chills run up and down my back.
[Tom Turbiville]: I want to move along because we're running short on time.
[Tom Turbiville]: You had talked about
[Tom Turbiville]: fighting the Chinese because the North Koreans were pretty much punched out about this time and fighting the Chinese.
[Tom Turbiville]: And one thing that you credit really for saving your life during one battle is the World War II Corsairs and how they provided cover for you in one of the battles in North Korea.
[Norman Beal]: The Marine Corps has an air ground team.
[Norman Beal]: And on the ground, we had flyers that were forward observers because they knew how to talk to the men up in these Corsairs.
[Norman Beal]: These were old World War II.
[Norman Beal]: In fact, everything we had was World War II equipment, except later on we had one of these bubbled helicopters that you see in MASH.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right, right.
[Tom Turbiville]: Exactly.
[Norman Beal]: They'd put Marines wounded on both sides and take them back as fast as they could and then come back.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right.
[Tom Turbiville]: You talked about going back, getting on ships, and how those ships were stuffed with some
[Tom Turbiville]: but you estimate about 100,000 North Koreans that you took.
[Norman Beal]: Oh, yes.
[Tom Turbiville]: Yeah, that went to South Korea with you.
[Tom Turbiville]: And the first thing you did when you got back on the ship was find a lifeboat to sleep.
[Tom Turbiville]: You were hungry, but sleep was more important.
[Norman Beal]: Is that right?
[Norman Beal]: I crawled under a lifeboat.
[Norman Beal]: I didn't even go around in that stinking ship.
[Tom Turbiville]: You found out about this time that you were a corporal, there was another corporal, and only one corporal could go back home.
[Tom Turbiville]: And it was you, the other corporal was a young man, was a fellow from Houston.
[Tom Turbiville]: Yes.
[Tom Turbiville]: And they said, decide between yourselves which one goes home and which one stays.
[Tom Turbiville]: And how did you do that?
[Norman Beal]: We drew cards.
[Norman Beal]: Somebody had some cards.
[Norman Beal]: I don't know where they came from.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right.
[Norman Beal]: But I drew a six, and McMahon drew a six.
[Norman Beal]: And so we had to draw again.
[Norman Beal]: I drew a ten, and he drew a jack, and he got to go.
[Tom Turbiville]: And you got to stay, and you thought...
[Norman Beal]: I thought that was the end to me. I would not get out of there.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right.
[Norman Beal]: But I did about a month later.
[Norman Beal]: I got out.
[Tom Turbiville]: You got out about a month later?
[Tom Turbiville]: Yeah.
[Tom Turbiville]: And so in all, your service in Korea was about eight months, is that right?
[Norman Beal]: Eight months, that's right.
[Norman Beal]: The brigade people, they were pulled out first because they'd been in constant battle.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right.
[Norman Beal]: The Korean War was an intense war, as you can see from the number of people killed.
[Tom Turbiville]: Yeah, you had talked, as a matter of fact, you brought some numbers there from the chosen reservoir, the number of killed just from that.
[Norman Beal]: Right.
[Norman Beal]: There was approximately 15,000 of us up in the reservoir area, plus some army that went on the east side of the reservoir.
[Norman Beal]: The 7th Regiment and the 5th Regiment were sent on up to a place called Udam Nee.
[Norman Beal]: Mm-hmm.
[Norman Beal]: we called it you damn near didn't get out.
[Norman Beal]: Because the pilots were flying over and they were taking bets.
[Norman Beal]: There's no way that the 1st Marine Division was gonna get out of that area.
[Norman Beal]: Got some figures here.
[Norman Beal]: Of course, I mentioned the cold a while ago and the cold or the gut as you want to know.
[Norman Beal]: Yes, sir.
[Norman Beal]: Approximately seven enemy divisions were wiped out or defeated severely by the 1st Marine Division.
[Norman Beal]: and let me see historians have termed the chosen reservoir campaign the most savage battle of modern modern warfare president reagan cited the chosen campaign the epic of military history and so no wonder you are such a
[Tom Turbiville]: Such a proud group and a proud organization.
[Tom Turbiville]: That's correct.
[Tom Turbiville]: I wish we had time to talk more, but it was such a fantastic service, and you are fortunate to be here.
[Tom Turbiville]: I got it.
[Tom Turbiville]: To tell the story.
[Tom Turbiville]: Yes, sir.
[Tom Turbiville]: A lot of combat.
[Tom Turbiville]: Thank you very much for your service.
[Tom Turbiville]: Sure.
[Tom Turbiville]: And thank you for your time.
[Tom Turbiville]: Norman Beal and his wife Wanda live in the country with a couple of very friendly dogs.
[Tom Turbiville]: Norman enjoys his life now that he has well earned by putting his life on the line for eight months of battling the North Koreans and the Chinese in what they call the Forgotten War, Korea, but not forgotten to him and certainly not to us.
[Tom Turbiville]: We salute Norman Beal for his service as we do all veterans.
[Tom Turbiville]: I'm Tom Turbiville.
[Tom Turbiville]: Please join us next time on Veterans of the Valley.
[Music.]